checklist.md, before:

Prepare a README document. Include
- [ ] authors and title of the package (may be different from the manuscript)
- [ ] accurate bibliographic reference to the article which the package supplements
- [ ] Data Availability and Provenance Statements for each external dataset you are using
- [ ] data citations for each external dataset you are using
- [ ] descriptions of software requirements, including optional packages
- [ ] descriptions of hardware requirements, including runtimes
- [ ] high-level overview of the replication process
- [ ] The README follows the Social Science Data Editors' template
- [ ] It is in plain text, markdown or PDF format, named README.txt, README.md or README.pdf.

Before you create the .zip archive of your replication package, ensure that you have included
- [ ] the raw data your are allowed to
- [ ] the analysis data
- [ ] data cleaning code
- [ ] analysis code
- [ ] all tables and figures produced by the analysis code
- [ ] The README document is included as README.txt, README.md or README.pdf in the root folder of the archive

The manuscript includes
- [ ] a Data Availability Statement referring to the DOI of the Zenodo record
- [ ] accurate bibliographic citations of each dataset you are using

Commit message:

Update checklist.md according to DCAS

checklist.md, after:

# REStud submissionform checklist

## Package contains:
    - [ ] Raw data if it is publicly accessible. 
    - [ ] Analysis data. 
    - [ ] Programs to create any final and analysis data.
    - [ ] Programs producing any computational results
    - [ ] In case of experimentally collected data, the computer codes for the experiment
    - [ ] All the used computational results in some standard format [^1] 
    - [ ] Only *ONE* README document
    - [ ] All other supporting material[^2]
    - [ ] A license that specifies the terms of use of code and data in the replication package.
## README requirements:
    - [ ] Authors and title of the replication package (may be different from MS).
    - [ ] Accurate bibliographic reference to the article which the package supplements.
    - [ ] A Data Availabilty Statement (DAS) on how, where and under what conditions can the data be accessed.
    - [ ] A data citation on all the data used in the replication package except for original data.
    - [ ] Description of variables and their allowed values.
    - [ ] A list of exhibits with their corresponding programs and data.
    - [ ] A high-level overview of the replication process including software and hardware requirements.
    - [ ] The README follows the schema provided by the Social Science Data Editors' template README.
    - [ ] The README is in .txt, .pdf or .md format and named README.txt, README.pdf or README.md and included in the root folder.
## Manuscript requirements:
    - [ ] A Data Availabilty Statement referring to the DOI of the Zenodo record
    - [ ] Accurate bibliographic citations of each dataset you are using


[^1]: Tables can be in .csv, .xls, .tex, Stata logs are also accepted if the lines of the exhibits are noted; figures can be in .eps, .pdf, .png.

[^2]: If collecting through surveys or experiments, survey instruments or experiment instructions as well as details on subject selection have to be included.
