-------------
# Journal of Finance

[homepage](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/15406261)<br/>
[Code Sharing Policy](https://afajof.org/wp-content/uploads/files/policies-and-guidelines/CodePolicy.pdf)
[Submission Guidelines and Policies](https://afajof.org/wp-content/uploads/files/policies-and-guidelines/JF_Submission_Guidelines-Feb.pdf)
-------------
## Code Sharing Policy
Authors of accepted papersthat contain empirical analysis, simulations, numerical computations, or experimental work must provide the programs needed for replication to the Journal of Finance. Authors are also encouraged to include the data along with the source codeif public posting of the data does not violate copyright or confidentiality agreements. If the authors choose not to provide the data, they must include a pseudo-data set thatillustrates the format of the files read by the code so that users can understand and check the functionalityof the code. Authors must notify the JournalEditor at the time of initial submissionifthey are asking for an exception to this policy. Absent an exception granted by the Editor, accepted papers will be published only after the programs are received by the Journal, and code will be made available on the Journal website. Authors are not required to provide assistance and further support to eventual users of the code. More details of the requirements are described below.
1. The authors should provide sufficient details about the software packages, programming languages and data formats to enable usersto run the programs. The code should be suitably commented so that it can be understood by a reasonably adept user.
2. Any person downloading any of the file(s) will need to certify that theprograms will be used only for academic research. Any other use, including for commercial purposes, is strictly prohibitedexcept with explicit permission fromall authors of the published article, or, if the code comesfrom a third-party source, with explicit permission of thecited originators of the code. Academic researchers using the code, or fragments of it,intheir own work are required to acknowledge the origin of the code. Such researchers agree that they will not seek out assistance orfurther support of the authors of the article or cited originators of the code.
3. In exceptional cases, the authors can request, at the time of the initial submission,an exemption from this sharing policy. Examples of exceptions are the use of proprietary, licensed algorithms,or when an authordevelops a novel computational algorithm and he/she wishes delay sharing for some fixed period of time. Whether such an exemption is granted remains at the discretion of the Editor. Moreover, even if an exception is granted, Editors will normally require that non-proprietary routines used for data transformation and auxiliary statistical analysis be posted at the time of publication. Ifan exemption is granted, it will be noted on the published paper that the authors have been granted an exemption fromthe code sharing policy.  
## Submission Rules
...<br/>
k)Submissions can include a supplementary appendix that might include extra tables, extra figures, data description, and proofs. If the manuscript is accepted, the supplementary appendix will appear as an Internet Appendix with the online version of the article at the publisher’s website.<br/>
l)If  your  paper  uses  proprietary  data  (that  is  not  available  for  purchase  by  the academic  community)  and  is  accepted  for  publication,  your  final  submission must be accompanied by an authorization letter showing that the source of the data approves its use in the Journal of Finance.<br/>
...
